---
description: Azure Active Directory Identity Protection
---

# 11.3 Azure Active Directory Identity Protection

## Azure Active Directory Identity Protection

Azure AD Identity Protection is the function of provisioning access rights to a resource. Azure AD Identity Protection can take the form of an access policy. An access policy defines the business rules on whether authenticated user is granted or denied access to a resource. Azure AD utilises Conditional Access to define the access policies for Office 365 data. Azure AD using Identity Protection utilises analytics further to minimise the risk that access is provisioned to a compromised authenticated user.

Azure AD Identity Protection enables configuration of automated responses to suspicious activities and actions related to user identities. With Azure AD Identity Protection, risk-based policies can be configured that automatically respond to detected issues when a specified risk level has been reached.

These policies, in addition to other conditional access controls provided by Azure AD, can either automatically block, Smart Lockout, or initiate adaptive remediation actions including password resets and MFA enforcement.

Azure AD Identity Protection uses the following mechanisms to detect anomalous activity within the environment:

* Vulnerabilities – Azure AD Identity Protection analyses identity configuration and detects vulnerabilities that can have an impact on user identities. Vulnerabilities can include items such as unmanaged cloud applications.
* Risk Events – Azure AD uses adaptive machine learning algorithms and heuristics to detect suspicious actions that are related to the user's identities. The system creates a record for each detected suspicious action. These records are also known as risk events and include activities such as Sign-ins from anonymous IP addresses, sign-ins from IP addresses previously detected as exhibiting suspicious activity, or unfamiliar locations.

Azure AD Identity Protection provides mechanisms for logging and reporting functionality that simplify investigation activities.

Azure AD Identity Protection Design Decisions for all agencies and implementation types.

| Decision Point | Design Decision | Justification |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Azure AD Identity Protection | Enable the sign-in risk policy and user risk policy within the Azure AD tenant. | Provide reporting of detected suspicious sign-in activity based on defined MFA, sign-in risk and user risk policies for increased security. |
| User risk policy | Enabled | The user risk policy detects the probability that a user account has been compromised by detecting risk events that are a typical of a user's behaviour, alerting when high risk behaviour is detected. |
| Sign-in risk policy | Enabled | Azure AD analyses each sign-in of a user. The objective of the analysis is to detect suspicious actions that come along with the sign-in. Automated actions will be configured to be taken when high risk behaviour is detected. |

