---
description: Azure AD Multifactor Authentication
---

# 11.4 Azure AD Multifactor Authentication

## Azure AD Multifactor Authentication

Authentication is a primary security control to protect both information assets - ranging from logging into a Windows device, to sending an email or collaborating on a document. When deploying Microsoft 365, the identity for each individual staff member is either in the cloud or both in the cloud and on-premises. Employing multiple authentication factors present a significant challenge for attackers gaining access to a system. Traditional authentication methods rely purely on something the user knows, such as a password. Note, a username does not technically count as an authentication factor. A user enters a username to only claim an identity, then must provide an authentication factor to validate this claim \(identification vs authentication\). Multi-factor authentication \(MFA\) is recommended by the ACSC for all users to prove a user's identity before being granted access.

Multi-factor authentication is any combination of two or more authentication sources from the following categories. Biometrics are yet to be accepted as part of the industry standard definition of an authentication factor.

* Something a user knows \(such as a password or PIN\).
* Something a user has \(such as a specific hardened device\).
* Something a user is \(such as biometric trait, for example a fingerprint\).

Azure Multifactor Authentication provides additional security by requiring a second form of authentication and delivers strong authentication via a range of easy to use authentication methods.

Azure MFA provides multiple verification methods, such as:

* Call to phone – Call to phone places an automated voice call to a phone number defined by the user.
* Verification code from mobile app – The Microsoft Authenticator app generates a new verification code every 30 seconds. The user enters the verification code into the sign-in interface.
* Notification through mobile app – Sends a push notification to a user's phone or registered device using the Microsoft Authenticator app. The user views the notification and selects "Approve" to complete the verification process.
* Text message to phone – Sends a text message that contains a verification code that is used as the authentication token. The user is prompted to enter the verification code into the sign-in interface. This process is called one-way SMS.
* OAuth hardware token verification code – OATH is an open standard that specifies how one-time password \(OTP\) codes are generated. Various vendor tokens are supported.

Azure MFA integrates with Azure AD Conditional Access polices, or the Trusted IP ranges feature to determine under what circumstances and user's physical location a challenge for additional authentication is required . Conditional Access polices are the recommended method to determine MFA conditions.

Azure AD Multifactor Authentication Design Decisions for all agencies and implementation types.

| Decision Point | Design Decision | Justification |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| MFA | Configured – Mobile App – soft token code | Native Azure MFA will be configured to secure access to applications and desktops from outside of the environment, and any system administration functions. Use of a mobile app for verification instead of SMS message or phone call reduces any possibility of hack by cloning or swapping a sim card.  The ACSC recommends implementing soft tokens without push notifications. |
| Hardware Token Support | Allowed \(supported OATH tokens only\) | The default method will be to use soft tokens which will meet maturity level 2 of the essential 8, although hardware tokens will be allowed. Hardware token support is required to support some use cases. Some working locations may not allow mobile phones, or users may have a specific physical token, biometrics or smartcard justification. Having hard tokens is a requirement to achieve Essential 8, level 3 maturity for multifactor authentication. |
| Trusted IP | Not configured | Conditional Access policies will be used in place of the legacy 'Trusted IP' feature. Trusted egress IP addresses will be defined by Conditional Access. |
| MFA for Administration | Configured | Administration through the Azure Portal and other Cloud Apps will require MFA. |
| MFA for User Apps | Configured | MFA is required. |

Note: OATH tokens are to be purchased separately if required.

